---
title: About
---

# About

Your social media feed should be filled with what matters to you most, not what a corporation thinks you should see. Mastodon is radically different social media, back in the hands of the people. Mastodon treats you like a person, not a product.

::alert{type="info"}
No tracking. No advertising.
::

But Mastodon isn’t just the vmst.io domain, or a single a website—it is a federation (think Star Trek 🖖) Nearly 11,000 independent communities (and growing) running Mastodon form a coherent network, where while every server is different, each one is part of the whole. Mastodon is built on open standards, using sustainable technologies (i.e. no blockchain) that have powered the web for decades.

Thanks to the network's spread out and independent nature there are more moderators who you can approach for personal help, and servers with strict codes of conduct. It also has tools to help you manage your usage, limit notifications, and control your experience. Mastodon comes with effective anti-abuse tools to help protect yourself.

Mastodon is also part of a larger system of ActivityPub powered sites that can all interact together. There are millions of users across nearly 29,000 ActivityPub powered sites. Some like Mastodon, some more like other video and picture sharing social media sites you're used to on the Internet. Without lock-in, without making you the product.

## Frequently asked questions

  ::list{type="info"}
  - [Who's paying for this to exist?](/funding)
  - [Can my company sign up?](/rules/brands)
  - [Who's running this place?](/about/staff)
  - [Where are you hosted?](/infrastructure)
  - [Can the admins read my private messages?](/about/data)
  - [Do you use AI or feed data to LLMs?](/about/data#large-language-models)
  - [How reliable is your service?](/infrastructure/monitoring)
  - [Do you block (defederate) other servers?](/rules/defederation)
  - [Do you block Threads?](/rules/threads)
  ::